- [Instructor] The next part of the demo
is to add generic methods to the box generic type.
But before that, let's understand the concept
of generic methods.
So the way you define generics on the class level
you can always extend that to the method level, as well.
And there are two parts here that we have to talk about.
Generic methods inside a generic class
and generic methods outside the generic class.
Let's first talk about the generic methods
inside the generic class.
So a method inside generic class will always have access
to the type parameter that was defined on the class level.
And hence, it automatically becomes a generic method
relative to that type parameter.
In addition to this, a method which is inside
a generic class can always use more type parameters
other than the ones defined on the class level.
So for example, if your class has a type parameter
T defined, then the method inside your generic class
can definitely use T
because that is available on the class level.
But additionally, it can also use more parameters
for its own logic.
For example, S-U-V can definitely be defined on that method.
Now let's talk about methods outside a generic class.
Let's say you have a utility class for the box generic type
called BoxUtils and you want to define a method
in the utility class which gives you access
to the type parameter T of your box generic type.
It is then possible to have the type parameter declared
on that method as well.
So you can write generic methods
even outside a generic class.
Lastly, as we know, constructors are very similar to methods
except that they do not have a return type.
So all the rules that we saw with generic methods
naturally get applied to constructors, as well.
Now let's go ahead and start the second part of our demo.
Let's add methods to the generic type box.
So I have a series of steps here.
Let's execute them one by one.
The first one is add method to the box class.
The first method is additem.
This method is supposed to add an item to the box.
So let's go back to the IDE
and inside the box class, let's open that,
let's come after this constructor and on line number 13
we are now going to define a generic method
which is going to add an item in the list for this box.
So we can say public, we don't need to return anything,
so this can be labeled void, the return type
and the name of the method, which will be additem.
Now, this additem will take a parameter of the type T
and we just have to access the list and say,
items.add T.
There we go.
That is all.
So you have defined a method inside the generic class.
And as I said earlier, that this method
will be able to access the T type parameter
that you've defined on the class level.
So it automatically becomes a generic method.
The next method that we have to add
is getting the latest item from the box.
So we'll define a method called getLatestItem.
Let's go on the next line and say public
and let's understand this.
Now you're trying to return the latest item.
So you're trying to return a T from this method.
So the return type will now be T and say getLatestItem.
And what you have to simply do is,
return, take the items variable, like that,
sorry, it should be this.items.get
and I can specify the index like that.
Items.size minus one.
Since you want the latest item from the box
you just have to calculate the size of the items,
subtract one and that will be the index number
you need to provide to the get API, to get the latest item.
So that is all.
So if you note online 17, the return type of this method
is a T because we are trying to get a T out of our box of T.
And then the next step will be to test each of these methods
on the box instances that we already created.
So let's go back
and let's go to our test box generics class.
And now here, let's go ahead and add items first
to the book box.
So I'll say book box.additem
and I'll have to add a book object.
So that'll be new book.
And you already defined a constructor
in a previous demo for the book class,
so we just have to specify the values for the fields now.
So let's say "Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince"
and this was JK Rowling,
and let's say the weight of that book was 0.5 kilograms.
Okay, let's add another item to the book box.
Add item.
Let's say new book again.
I recently read a book which is called "Deep Work",
it's an excellent book and the author is Cal Newport
and let's say 0.25.
Okay, so we have two books added to the book box.
Let's go ahead and invoke the other method.
So we can just CIS out this to the console,
say, bookbox.getlatestitem.
So there we go.
We have utilized both the methods on the book box.
We have been able to add items using the ad item method
and we have been able to get the latest book,
using the get latest item method.
We'll do the same thing for the fruit box, as well.
So let's come down here and say fruit box.aditem
and this will be now a fruit object.
So let's go ahead and say name.
So let's say mango.
I am going to say country of origin, let's say India.
Then we want the color, that will be yellow.
And let's say the weight 0.5 again.
Let's add one more.
Fruitbox.additem new fruit,
let's call this banana.
Let's say it originated in Brazil.
Color, let's say green this time.
It's a raw banana.
Let's say.
And then the weight is 0.3.
Okay, so there we go.
We have added fruits to the fruit box, as well.
And let's go ahead and invoke the get latest item
on the fruit box, as well.
So fruitbox.getlatest item.
So now let's go ahead and run this program.
So, after you run this program,
both the books should be added successfully to the book box
and you should be able to get the latest item
out of the book box and the same kind of output
you'll observe even for the fruit box.
So let's run this.
Okay, so now if you observe the output,
if you see the first output is book name, "Deep Work"
and that is the output of the line number eight,
which was the latest item that we added in the book.
So yes, the latest item indeed was the "Deep Work" book
that's what is printed on the console.
And then we also printed the book box
on line number nine in our code.
So that the entire content of the box.
That is both the books, "Harry Potter" and "Deep Work".
Similarly, when it comes to fruit,
the latest item that we added was indeed the banana object,
so that's printed on the console
and we printed the entire fruit box.
So it printed all the items in that box of fruits,
which is mango and banana, both.
There we go.
So we have now generic methods defined
inside the box generic type,
which we have been successfully able to
invoke and test out.